Outline

There had been six of them altogether only two months ago, but
the baby had died. Stine was their biggest male, but he was still a
long way from adulthood. Then came the two children; Snot and Hat.
Snot and Hat begged by day, working close on the fringe of
a nearby market with the permission of the local beggar lord. Stine
had recently pulled a job at the foundry, thanks to an introduction
given by Marten, the district hand of the theives guild. Mandy
washed clothes, which she'd been doing since she had been big
enough to get the job done.

Jack steals from a malkemist. Their abilities are proported to be
unlimited. They imbue pure water with properties from their
imaginations, the water can do practically anything. The water is a
focus for the will of the malkemist. The liquid must be prepared
properly. Non-malkemists (those who cannot prepare the liquid) can
sometimes use these potions, but it usually doesn't have the same
effect. The intent of the caster must be aligned with the original
intent of the brewer, although there are rare exceptions.

Jack escapes, thinking to return to Mardy, his adoptive mother, and
he heads in that direction. He watches her through a window, and
wants to go to her, tell her what has happened, but with a
malkemist on his tail, he quickly abandons that idea. He instead
decides to go to Marten who he thinks can get him out of
the city onto a farm, his plan is to stay there a few years to
avoid the malkemist. Jack is a thief, and usually, he would take
his haul to a goldsmith contact and after he smelted down the gold
and silver he had pilfered, he would be rewarded with coin. He goes
to Marten (Brent), but as soon as he mentions the malkemist, his girlfriend
he kicks him violently out into the street. The gold and silver in
his pockets tinkle, and he decides that he'll need money to get out
of town. He avoids the town guard that seems suddenly out in force
and makes his way to the goldsmith.

The goldsmith is only too happy to let him in, completely unaware
of the hornets nest that has been awoken by Jack's nightly foray.
While unburdening himself of his take, his finds a crystal in
amongst everything. He quickly hides it from the goldsmith, but it
catches his eye. The goldsmith (Dicky) grabs his hand visciously
and demands to know where he found it, fear in his eyes (the
crystal is a focus for making the potions that malkemists use, Jack
is lucky because the nalkemist he has stolen from initially
believes that it was a rival malkemist). Just then there comes a
loud booming knock at the front of the goldsmith's shop. The
goldsmith is spooked and shackles Jack's hands to a post,
before heading out the front. Jack quickly spits on his hand and
slips from the shackle, which is sized for an adult. The goldsmith
opens the door for what turns out to be the malkemist and two town
guards. They quickly find the silver and the empty box.

Jack slips back down into sewer, carefully closing the porthole
above him. Meanwhile, the goldsmith is taken by the guard for
having possession of the stolen goods (the malkemist loses the
ability to track Jack at this point because he no longer possesses
a particular stolen object). Jack heads for the nearest exit to the
city, keeping to obscure alleys and drains. It has already dawned, when
he finds himself at the sewer exit. Just as he is about to exit,
two dogs stop him and bar his way. They are implacable. Jack
believes they are real dogs until he turns to find their master, a
malkemist. 

[This interaction was changed]
The malkemist explains that he isn't there to hurt him, but Jack
doesn't believe him. The malkemist loses patience and pulls a flask
with a strange scoop attached to the mouth. He casts a small amount
of the liquid at Jack. It strikes him on his chest and snakes its
way down his arms to his wrists and then sends out feelers to
connect with each other and draws Jack's hands together. He is
bound. The malkemist explains that he can do the same to his legs,
but expresses the hope that he might not need to. The two dogs
growl menacingly, and Jack gives in. The malkemist takes out an
atomizer and sprays Jack from head to toe with the liquid. Jack
asks what it is, but the malkemist ignores him. 

The malkemist leads and drags Jack back through the city, evading
detection despite the manhunt. Eventually, they reach a house and
enter. Jack discovers that the malkemist who has kidnapped him is a
servant to another malkemist. This seems strange to him, as he has
always thought of malkemists as having no rules or rulers. The
nature of the two dogs becomes known when the malkemist Halem,
recalls the two creatures to a flask. Another malkemist makes the
remark that he should destroy those two, and that it is a dangerous
experiment (he means that such creatures, created through malkemy,
grow more real with each time they are instantiated, and no ones
understands the consequences of this). The other malkemist makes
reference to the forbidden practice of creating human simulcrums
and how dangerous they can become ( we meet a simulcrum later on).

Jack is taken in front of the faction leader, a portly man. This
strikes Jack as strange, but he doesn't understand why. He is
scared, but tries for bravado. The leader asks him why Brazen is
searching for him, and Jack answers that he stole from him. The
leader says that that was incredibly stupid, and Jack replies that
he didn't know that the house belonged to a malkemist. He's almost
in tears at this point. He has pick-pocketed one of the malkemists
and has a glass flask in his possession. He has been released from
his bindings, and pulls away from Halem to threaten them with it.
There is general laughter. "What do you expect to do with that boy?
It's useless without the will of a malkemist." Jack draws back a
hand to throw the flask when something grabs him from behind. The
laughter intensifies. Jack is dragged back against the wall. He
manages to cast the flask anyway, and much to everyone's surprise,
it causes an explosion. 

The leader asks what the flask was, and discovers that it was meant
to be a detector. There is much curiosity, but Jack is sent to a
locked room. They have removed the crystal from his possession, and
now he must simply wait. He tries to piece together what has been
happening in his makeshift cell. Jack falls to sleep hungry. 

Halem wakes him by lamplight at some point during the night and
tells him that he's getting him out. Jack doesn't understand, but
follows anyway (Halem is a spy between factions, and although this
faction dismisses what has happened with the flask, another faction
is very interested in Jack). A female malkemist meets them outside
and conducts them through the city. Jack realizes that they are
taking him to the same district that he was in the night before and
becomes very nervous. He doesn't wait to find out, and when the
opportunity presents itself, he makes a dash for freedom. It takes
only a matter of moments for Halem's "dogs" to track him down and
corner him. Halem takes some time to explain to Jack that the
people who will be taking him in are interested in protecting him. 

They go to a house (Florna Library) that Jack doesn't know, so he
is relieved that it isn't the house of the man he stole from. That
relief is short lived when the first words he hears are [Changed],
"This is the little shit who stole from me?" He is interested in
the crystal, and Halem produces it. They then plan to send Jack to
the "Farm." (The Farm turns out to be just that, although also an
underground training facility for malkemists. Jack gets taken up
into a wider conflict that spans the nation. He is considered too
old to teach, but his unheard of ability to change the function of
a potion has intrigued many).

The next morning he is smuggled out of the city and is given into
the hands of three malkemists who are travelling to the farm.
Another boy is there, a malkemist in training who is transferring
to the farm. He is distant at first, but warms up to Jack during
the journey. The three men have horses, but the boy and he only
have donkeys. Jack turns out to be surprisingly good at handling
his donkey and rides well. This is a kind of casual wealth that he
has never been exposed to before. They sleep by the side of the
road in more comfort than he has ever had before. On the third
night out they are attacked. The malkemists seem stunned by the
attack, as though they cannot believe anyone would be so stupid as
to attack them. Two of the malkemists are killed, and the third
wounded. The attack was launched by a group who call themselves the
Goodmen, and they believe that it is their duty to destroy the
malkemists. The remaining malkemist heals himself and leads them to
the farm. At the farm the two boys are kept together, but apart
from everyone else. The man who travelled with them does not heal
their injuries but instead tricks them into drinking a draught of
forgetfulness, since the headmaster and he want to keep knowledge
of this attack away from the students and teachers. Jack is
suspicious by nature, and spills the liquid down his sleeve rather
than drink it. In the morning his companion wakes up in confusion
and cannot remember Jack. They have lost all four days of memories
together. Jack questions his friend and gets his references so he
can act appropriately when they are called for. He re-friends his
friend, without the hiccups of their first encounter.


Jack learns about the properties of malkemy and discovers that it
is tightly linked to the imagination of the malkemist. There is a
paradox at the heart of malkemy. To make useful and powerful
potions, great imagination is required. However, to make a potion
work at all, the rules must be followed closely. "Imaginatively
following the rules." This is why it is believed that Jack will not
be able to brew potions or use them, because he has not been
trained since young to encompass this paradox. Jack is a
daydreamer, he floats off into his imagination constantly. To do
anything with malkemy, it must make physical sense. There has to be
bounds to the creation that are self perpetuating. An impossible
thing can be created, but it could only last moments when animated.
Copying something is generally easy because the pattern is well
established. Halem's dogs for instance draw from something called
the kaskic to grow into full form and do not require much of
Halem's imagination. There is a memory in the water, and as that
memory is enacted over and over it gets stronger and stronger, no
longer requiring as much input from Halem's imagination or from the
kaskic.

An imaginary creature like a dragon or a unicorn would be almost
impossible to instantiate because of the load on the malkemist's
imagination and his law. The imagination to form it, and the law to
make the form take shape. A malkemist's law develops through study
of the natural world. When a malkemist produces a dog, very little
of his law is required, because the kaskic already knows the
pattern for a dog. 

Jack meets a man at the Farm called Kandan (a rouge simulcrum who
escaped its master, and is posing as a malkemist), and Kandan takes
Jack's tutelage upon himself. Kandan is seeking to improve himself,
as everytime he is called forth from a flask he becomes more.
However, since that process can only be done by a malkemist, and no
malkemist would do such a thing understanding what is happening, he
is stuck. The process of instantiation is a fast-forward on his
development. Kandan is fascinated by Jack because of his highly
developed imagination, and the fact that he has not been formally
schooled in the dangers and limitations of simulcrums. Kandan
carries an empty flask around with himself at all times. When a
malkemist creates a simulcrum, they often add behaviours that make
them easy to spot, or add an identifying mark or defect to the
body. Halem's dogs have a pigmented mark on their bellies for
instance and notches in their ears.

Halem comes to the farm. He is an inventor of sorts among the
malkemists. He creates new ways of doing things, which is why he is
given a little more leeway to use his dogs. He has discovered a way
to avoid one of the weaknesses of very strong vills. Instead of
allowing the vill to suck the necessary energy from the environment
when it is released, it sucks up this energy slowly over time
before it is used.

The enemey of my enemy, may not be my friend. A malkemist is
suspicious of Kandan, and seeks to expose whatever he is. He
believes that Kandan is a spy, not a simulcrum. Jack learns of this
malkemist's ill attention and devises a plan to snare the man in
his own machinations. 

The main stressor of the story is the motivations that drive the
different factions of the malkemists. The faction that has taken up
Jack believe that humanity needs to be kept in a state of depressed
technology. They site ancient history to demonstrate that human
beings cannot be trusted with technology. That the nature and
abilities of human beings always result in terrible power in the
hands of sentients poorly equipped to manage such power. They admit
to deliberately setting off famine, wars, pestilence to keep human
population in check and to preclude the possibility of
technological advancement. They are particularly opposed to two
types of technology. Energy and food. Both of which would give
humanity the opportunity to escape the control of the malkemists.
They have a prometheus fable about an ancient malkemist who tried
to free the humans, but he was chained under a mountain to endure
eternal torment (liver removed every day, his body regenerated, and
memory of the day wiped.) He has lived through this for thousands
of years.

I want to have Jack find this individual with Kandan. Kandan wants
an ally who will help him. He figures that if anyone will respect
the right of a simulcrum to live, this man would. Turns out to be a
woman.

There has been a murder, two in fact. Kandan killed the man who's
identity he stole, and one other malchemist who became suspicious.
Betrayal? He betrays Jack's trust, gaining his friendship and using
Jack to protect himself. A purpose? Kandan's purpose is to become
"whole" as he imagines such a thing to be. Jack's purpose is to
master his abilities despite what they say about him being
unteachable, a useless curiosity and nothing more. Jack is
accustomed to being useless. 

[Work in a character dressed in unusual attire, and allowed because
of some touching backstory.] [Babies skeletons beneath the
whorehouse. I'd love to work this in, but Jack leaves the city too
soon. Perhaps a flashback.] [Philosopher interaction, model after
Roger Boscovich.]

********************************************


Greon arrives. Old friend of Amoth. Injured and captured by enemy
malkemists in the past. His face and voice would have healed if he
had been treated properly, even days after the injury, but in
captivity they deliberately allowed him to heal wrong. Once set,
there was nothing a malkemist healing potion could do for him. 

***
"Look for it," XXXX said offhandedly.

"Look for it? I'll look for your head after I kick it off your
shoulders"

XXXX just laughed and went back to reading his book.
***
[Kandan]
Kandan's eyebrows rose, almost disappearing beneath his fringe.
"You have an uncommonly strong sensing ability. In most malkemists
it begins and almost exclusively ends with being able to identify
their own vills."

The night after Jack arrives at the farm, otherwise known as
Pamsley, he finds a dead body. There is a lot of blood. It is
almost certainly a malkemist because anybody else would have been
covered in blood from head to toe. The masters at Pamsley suspects
the Soldier who just arrived, as he is a stranger to them. Kandan
offers that the man who died (who he knew) was quite an
accomplished malkemist, so doubts that the man could have done the
deed. Kandan tells Jack that he does not know the man, but this is
contradicted later when a malkemist comes to Pamsley who mentions
in Jack's hearing that "Kandan must have been devastated, they were
as thick as thieves; as close as two men could be."

Demic is the Grand Imaginer's son. He has unusual strength and
ability in malkemy, and he is hailed as some kind of prophesied boy
who will bring the malkemists back to the true order and cleanse
the land of umbral (shadow) malkemists—those who seek to give
technology and knowledge to humans, in defiance of the prime
doctrine of malkemy.

This story is set in the Earth's future. No calamity, simple energy
starvation. Technology devolved millenia ago when the humans
exhausted the easy energy of that time. Malkemists guard against
human ascendency. Their training involves connecting to their
higher selves and surrendering to their spiritual duality. The
doctrines of the church of malkemy are loosely transcribed, because
when a malkemist connects to his or her higher self, they receive
the same information. They know that their purpose is to maintain
balance. To ensure that humans do not destabilise the earth.

However, there is growing concern in the community of the
malkemists that this process is failing, and less and less
malkemists are truly surrendering, and are simply dogmatically
reciting the words of faith. Demic is seen as a revitalising
figure. There is much stress on him to perform his miracle;
whatever form it may take.

How do the malkemists keep rouges from passing technology on to
humans? Technology is a slow process. Wars can be fomented to halt
human progression, famines instigated.

Kandan!!

[Halme (reunion with Jack)]
"Jack, my boy!" Halme bemoaned theatrically, "what have they done
to you? Where is the smart mouth, the characteristic rejection of
logic and reason?

"Oh come, don't be like that," he wheedled when he saw the Jack's
lips tighten. "I'm glad to see you. Give your Uncle Halme a hug."

He stretched his arms out in invitation.

Jack stayed where he was.

"Oh well, next time then."

[Meeting Golien (large northern barbarian)]
"I am from Sanadi. Very first malkemist we have."

"That's strange. Malkemy is inherited, so how did you get it if
you're from so far north."

"This is funny question. In fact, my father ask this same
question!" Golof laughed uproariously.

**
"It's impolite to turn down a drink," said :XXX

"It's not impolite to turn down poison," rejoined YYY. "It is
however, impolite to serve it."

XXX gave a tight unimpressed smile.
